---
layout: blog-post
title: "Bo Burhnam's Inside is a Masterpiece"
image: /assets/images/2021_TV/boburnham.jpeg
publish-date: 2021-06-05
featured: true
---

The best word I could use to describe my emotional state while watching Inside was *mesmerized*. Mesmerized by the camera work, every shot beautifully fulfilling a larger purpose. Mesmerized by the themes, Bo's honesty and vulnerability. Mesmermized by songs that got me thinking about my own life and how I fit into the world. I always respected Bo Burnham for his unique style of comedy and the sheer effort involved in his previous specials, but Inside cements Bo as one of the greats. The man wrote, directed and preformed the entire special. Inside will stand the test of time as the best thing to be released during the pandemic.

The special is a perfect quarantine time capsule. The takes place in a single room and Bo's mental state slowly deteriorates throughout. The songs themselves start off pretty playful with *Facetime my Mom* and *White Womans Instagram*. But as Bo spends more time inside it gets incredibly introspective. 

> > Look who's inside again, went out to look for a reason to hide again.

This quote from *Stuck in a Room* really spoke to me. Bo speaks about how he spent a long time hiding himself away because of his battle with depression. And when Bo finally felt like he could come outside again, the pandemic started. Bo wanted to take the leap out of his comfort zone, only to immediately get swatted down to the rock bottom he climbed out of. It leaves a pit in my stomach.

A consistent theme with Bo Burnham is criticizing technology. The frightening reality of children being raised to crave technology and seek validation from social media. We are constantly on a stage, where the only way to fit in is to fabricate a desirable life. The more we simplify the world, the more we complicate life.

> > Apathy's a tragedy and boredom is a crime.

This quote comes from my new favourite Bo Burnham song, *Welcome to the Internet*. Something that I constantly struggle with is how to fill my free time. It has become far too easy to pick up your phone when you're bored. As if being bored for longer than five minutes is ridiculous because there's always some other option. I'm trying to relearn how to be bored. Being able to just sit in it without craving technology. 

Inside is definitely funny but I wouldn't classify it as a comedy special. The funniest parts, to me, where the skits. The reaction video, the video game stream, and the brand awareness skits were all hilarious. But Bo uses the subtext of these skits and songs to send a more important message. Bo gives an incredibly raw portrayal of his own mental state, talking about how he's scared of turning 30 and how making the special was the only thing keeping him alive. This emotional honesty makes everything so engaging and magnetizing. You can feel his passion and anger.

Bo Burnham gives an onslaught of comedy and introspection over the course of an hour and thirty minutes. I never felt disengaged and I instead felt like I gained a new perspective on life. And of course some of the songs are absolute bangers that I currently have on repeat. I want to end on two quotes from one of the more nuanced songs, *Funny Feeling*.

> > Twenty thousand years of this; seven more to go.
> > What can you say, we were overdue, but it'll be over soon.

